I want to get started with the most basic form of navigation and also the most common form of navigation
you have in any mobile app and that's how to go back and forth between screens and for this will set
up a so-called stack and navigator because pages or screens.
I'll use these words as synonyms here.
So pages and screens are basically managed on a stack of pages.
And whenever you go to a new screen it will be pushed on top of that stack at the topmost screen on
a stack is always the screen which is visible.
And when you then click the back button is popped off this screen you were on is popped off.
And since you always see on the app the topmost screen you will see the screen below that which is the
screen you came from.
That's why it's called Stack navigator.
Now that's the fury.
Let's simply use it and it will become very clear.
We imported from react navigation and its name were the name of the function.
We actually need to create such a stack navigator is create stack Navigator.
So that's how react navigation this library works.
You create so-called navigators which are in the end.
Just you could say objects actually react components as it will turn out which hold all the navigation
configuration which hold all the information which different screens you have and which will do the
heavy lifting offloading different screens and playing nice smooth transitions for a going from A to
B for you.
So we need to import create stack navigator and then we can simply call that now create stack navigator
takes at least one argument and that is a javascript object where we configure the different screens
we want to be able to move between now and this app.
I want to start on the categories screen and if I tap on a category there I want to go to the category
meals screen and if I then tap on a recipe there on a meal I want to go to the meal detailed screen.
So we'll need these three screens in our stack navigator so that these are the three screens you can
move between by using this stack pattern by pushing new pages and popping them off.
And why don't we need favorites and filters because filters will later be added with the help of a sidebar.
It will be an alternative to this stack here.
And favorites also as an alternative to this stack we will be able to go there with taps later but not
right now.
So let's start with this basic stack based navigation where we can go forth and back between categories
screen category meals Screen and you'll detail screen we inform react navigation about these three screens
by registering them as key value pairs you take any identifier any name of your choice for example categories
but this name is up to you as a property name.
Convention is to start with a capital character here by the way.
But you don't have to do that technically.
So you use any identifier you want as a property name in this object you're passing to create stack
navigator.
And now the value in its simplest form simply is a pointer at de react component.
You want to load as a screen for this screen.
So in my case that would be the categories screen all import this all import categories screen from
screens category screen I can import this because there this is my default export.
So now we mapped is two categories and this allows us to later tell react navigation does library we're
using that it should load the category screen.
Now as I said this is not the only screen I need.
I also want to have the category meals.
So these are the systems the second screen.
This screen will present all the meals for the chosen category.
For Dad we have a number a component and that's the category meals screen we prepared which we import
from screens category meals screen.
So we mapped this here.
Now by the way I mentioned that this is the simplest form of mapping.
Simply having the property name and then a pointer at the component you want to load.
You also can parse the object here instead and set the screen property on this object and then point
on the at the component you want to load.
Now why would you do that.
Because now you can also set up additional configuration here besides the screen you could set up some
default options for the screen and so on.
But this is not something we have to worry about right now.
We'll actually take care about this later in this module just already want to mention that this is the
shortcut.
This is the longer form of tallying react navigation which screens should be loaded for which identifier
speaking off that we need a third identifier of course.
And that's the identifier that should load our detailed screen name at meal detail.
And I want to point at my meal detailed screen Seoul airport meal detail screen from and now let's go
to the screens folder and there it's the meal detailed screen and again I'll use the shortcut here.
We could use that longer for him but I'll use that shortcut in point at the meal detailed screen.
So with that basic configuration we're telling react navigation hey these are the screens we'll be able
to move between right now however data alone won't do much.
Why.
Because we're creating that stack navigator but we're not doing anything with it so let's change this
create stack navigator actually returns a navigation container and that turns out to be a react component.
So all named as meals navigator sounds like a fitting name because that's what we have in the end here
and now we're storing the react component created by the stack Navigator which is basically a react
component with all the heavy lifting of loading different screens and playing animations this react
component is stored in meals navigator.
Now we could export the meals navigator here and try using it like this and capture us to render it
onto the screen and see what happens but actually react navigation works a bit differently.
You also need to create an app container.
In this app container you need to wrap your route so your main navigator in this case we only have one
we only have to stack Navigator.
So let's wrap this with it.
Let's wrap the meals navigate or recreate it by calling create app container and then simply pass the
meals Navigator as an argument create app container.
Also creates a navigation container so all gives you a react component.
But this is no actually to react component you should use in your J.S. hex code because this now has
all the metadata about the navigation in general about react navigation and so on.
So this is simply a pattern you need wrap your route your most important navigator with that and use
this return react component in your J as X code then does basically the set up you'll always have when
working with react navigation later you will also learn how to use multiple navigators in one app by
the way.
For now we have this one and we export this component which is the end creates.
So now an app yes we can start using this component.
So did we see something on the screen.
For that let's go there and import the meals navigator from navigation meals navigator.
Now as I mentioned meals navigator is now just a react component so in the end what we can do is we
can simply return this instead of returning our view with our text here.
I will return meals navigator and since it's a react component I can simply write some J X code like
this with Dad if we save this we have a look at our application as it reloads
and you might need to manually reload your app you should see the categories screen once in reloaded
and this of course is huge because this means that this works.
Now please also note that you all by default get a nice header which has the default platform look for
IO s it's clean flat has this thin line below it for android it's more free dimensional because it all
has a slight drop shadow.
Now of course it's missing a title and you will learn how we can add one in this module but we get this
out of the box and this automatically alter respects any notches you might have to stay this far you
have here so it automatically uses such a safe area view and that's all the what I mentioned in the
last course module whilst you have this component and you sometimes need it for example when building
an app with react navigation react navigation already wraps your views into a safe area view at least
it will do a lot of the work you would have to do otherwise it will make sure that your header looks
good and that is a big thing because manually creating a header that looks good on all devices is actually
quite some work.
So that's what we get here.
The obvious question now is how can we reach our other screens.